connect-db.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-03-28"

keywords: databases, connections, scoring, requests

subcollection: ai-openscale

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}

# Specifying a database
{: #connect-db}

Specify a database for your {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} instance to use.
{: shortdesc}

## Connecting to your database
{: #cdb-connect}

{{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a database to store payload, feedback, and measurement data. Besides selecting a database, you may also select a schema for your database - a schema is a named collection of tables in the database.

1.  Choose a database. You have two options: the free Lite plan database, or an existing or new database.

    ![Select database](images/gs-config-database.png)

### Free Lite plan database
{: #cdb-lite}

**NOTE**: The free Lite plan database has some important limitations:

- The free Lite plan database is hosted, and is not directly accessible to you.
- {{site.data.keyword.aios_full}} will have full access to your database, and thus will have full access to your data.
- The free Lite plan database is not GDPR-compliant. If your model processes personally-identifiable information (PII), you cannot use the free Lite plan database. You must purchase a new database, or use an existing database that conforms to GDPR rules. See [Information security](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-is-ov) to learn more.

To proceed with using the free Lite plan database, simply select that option, then review the summary data and click **Save**.

  ![Select database](images/gs-config-database2.png)

### Existing or new database
{: #cdb-exn}

1.  Once you have selected the "Use existing or purchase new database" option, {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} checks your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} account to locate any existing databases.

1.  Select your existing database type (Compose for Postgres, Database for Postgres, or Db2), then a database from the **Database** drop-down menu, and then a **Schema**:

    {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a PostgreSQL or Db2 database to store model deployment output and retraining data. Lite Db2 plans are not currently supported.
    {: note}

    ![Select database](images/gs-config-database3.png)

1.  You can also click **Select a different location** to specify a database location outside of your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} account.

    {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a PostgreSQL or Db2 database to store model deployment output and retraining data. Lite Db2 plans are not currently supported.
    {: note}

    - Select the **Database Type** (`Compose for PostgreSQL`, `Database for PostgreSQL`, or `Db2`), then provide connection information:

        - For a `Compose for PostgreSQL` database, complete the following:

            - Hostname or IP address
            - Port
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Compose for Postgres db location](images/db-config-cpostgres.png)

        - For a `Database for PostgreSQL` database, complete the following:

            - Host name or IP address
            - SSL Port
            - Base-64 encoded certificate
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Database for Postgres db location](images/db-config-dpostgres.png)

        - For a `Db2` database, complete the following:

            - Hostname or IP address
            - SSL Port
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Db2 location](images/db-config-db2.png)

    - Once you have successfully connected, you can select a schema.

      The schema name needs to be provided explicitly if you provide a Db2 instance with limited access, which does not allow the schema name to be automatically generated. This applies to the Entry Db2 Warehouse plan.
      {: important}

      ![Select schema](images/gs-config-database5.png)

1.  Click **Next** to review the summary data, then click **Save**.

## Sending a scoring request
{: #cdb-score}

To configure monitors, {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} requires you to send a scoring request, in order to begin to log the data that will be monitored.

Models deployed in Watson Machine Learning are automatically scored by {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}}. If you only have models deployed in Watson Machine Learning, you will not see this screen.
{: note:}

Select a deployment, in this case "Fraud Detector", and then use the provided `cURL` or `Python` code snippets to log model deployment request and response data. See [Payload logging for non-Watson Machine Learning service instances](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-cml-connect) for more detail.

The fields and values in the code snippets need to be substituted with your real values, as the ones provided are only examples.
{: important}

![Select database](images/config-send-scoring.png)

Once you have run your payload logging, you will see a checkmark in the "Ready to Monitor" column for the selected deployment. Click **Configure Monitors** to continue.

## Next steps
{: #cdb-next}

{{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} is now ready for you to [configure monitors for your deployments](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-mo-config).

Commit message:

Sync-up with 4/8-9 staging changes

connect-db.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-04-09"

keywords: databases, connections, scoring, requests

subcollection: ai-openscale

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}

# Specifying a database
{: #connect-db}

Specify a database for your {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} instance to use.
{: shortdesc}

## Connecting to your database
{: #cdb-connect}

{{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a database to store payload, feedback, and measurement data. Besides selecting a database, you may also select a schema for your database - a schema is a named collection of tables in the database.

1.  Choose a database. You have two options: the free Lite plan database, or an existing or new database.

    ![Select database](images/gs-config-database.png)

    If you have a paid {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, you may provision a `Databases for PostgreSQL` or `Db2 Warehouse` service to take full advantage of integration with Watson Studio and continuous learning services. If you choose not to provision a paid service, you can use the free internal PostgreSQL storage with {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}}, but you will not be able to configure continuous learning for your model.
    {: note}

### Free Lite plan database
{: #cdb-lite}

**NOTE**: The free Lite plan database has some important limitations:

- The free Lite plan database is hosted, and is not directly accessible to you.
- {{site.data.keyword.aios_full}} will have full access to your database, and thus will have full access to your data.
- The free Lite plan database is not GDPR-compliant. If your model processes personally-identifiable information (PII), you cannot use the free Lite plan database. You must purchase a new database, or use an existing database that conforms to GDPR rules. See [Information security](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-is-ov) to learn more.

To proceed with using the free Lite plan database, simply select that option, then review the summary data and click **Save**.

  ![Select database](images/gs-config-database2.png)

### Existing or new database
{: #cdb-exn}

1.  Once you have selected the "Use existing or purchase new database" option, {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} checks your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} account to locate any existing databases.

1.  Select your existing database type (Compose for Postgres, Database for Postgres, or Db2), then a database from the **Database** drop-down menu, and then a **Schema**:

    {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a PostgreSQL or Db2 database to store model deployment output and retraining data. Lite Db2 plans are not currently supported.
    {: note}

    ![Select database](images/gs-config-database3.png)

1.  You can also click **Select a different location** to specify a database location outside of your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} account.

    {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} uses a PostgreSQL or Db2 database to store model deployment output and retraining data. Lite Db2 plans are not currently supported.
    {: note}

    - Select the **Database Type** (`Compose for PostgreSQL`, `Database for PostgreSQL`, or `Db2`), then provide connection information:

        - For a `Compose for PostgreSQL` database, complete the following:

            - Hostname or IP address
            - Port
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Compose for Postgres db location](images/db-config-cpostgres.png)

        - For a `Database for PostgreSQL` database, complete the following:

            - Host name or IP address
            - SSL Port
            - Base-64 encoded certificate
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Database for Postgres db location](images/db-config-dpostgres.png)

        - For a `Db2` database, complete the following:

            - Hostname or IP address
            - SSL Port
            - Database (name)
            - Username
            - Password

            ![Specify Db2 location](images/db-config-db2.png)

    - Once you have successfully connected, you can select a schema.

      The schema name needs to be provided explicitly if you provide a Db2 instance with limited access, which does not allow the schema name to be automatically generated. This applies to the Entry Db2 Warehouse plan.
      {: important}

      ![Select schema](images/gs-config-database5.png)

1.  Click **Next** to review the summary data, then click **Save**.

## Sending a scoring request
{: #cdb-score}

To configure monitors, {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} requires you to send a scoring request, in order to begin to log the data that will be monitored.

Models deployed in Watson Machine Learning are automatically scored by {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}}. If you only have models deployed in Watson Machine Learning, you will not see this screen.
{: note:}

Select a deployment, in this case "Fraud Detector", and then use the provided `cURL` or `Python` code snippets to log model deployment request and response data. See [Payload logging for non-Watson Machine Learning service instances](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-cml-connect) for more detail.

The fields and values in the code snippets need to be substituted with your real values, as the ones provided are only examples.
{: important}

![Select database](images/config-send-scoring.png)

Once you have run your payload logging, you will see a checkmark in the "Ready to Monitor" column for the selected deployment. Click **Configure Monitors** to continue.

## Next steps
{: #cdb-next}

{{site.data.keyword.aios_short}} is now ready for you to [configure monitors for your deployments](/docs/services/ai-openscale?topic=ai-openscale-mo-config).
