wos-custom-ml-examples.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-06-28"

keywords: databases, connections, scoring, requests, schema, REST API, API

subcollection: ai-openscale

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:download: .download}
{:screen: .screen}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}

# Custom machine learning engine examples
{: #fmrk-workaround-cstmmlsengex}

Use the following examples to set up your own custom machine learning engine.
{: shortdesc}

## Python and flask
{: #fmrk-workaround-pandflask}

The [Custom ML Engine example published on git](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix) is using python and flask to serve scikit-learn model.

The [README file](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix) describes how the app can be deployed locally for testing purposes as well as cf application on IBM Cloud. The implementation of REST API endpoints can be found in [app.py file](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/blob/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix/app.py).

## Node.js
{: #fmrk-workaround-nodejs}

You can also find example of custom machine learning engine written in [Node.js here](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-nodejs).

## End2end code pattern
{: #fmrk-workaround-e2ecode}

[Code pattern](https://developer.ibm.com/patterns/monitor-custom-machine-learning-engine-with-ai-openscale) showing end2end example of custom engine deployment and integration with {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}}.

Commit message:

scikit learn versioning
https://github.ibm.com/aiopenscale/tracker/issues/12206#issuecomment-15080740

wos-custom-ml-examples.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2019
lastupdated: "2019-06-28"

keywords: databases, connections, scoring, requests, schema, REST API, API

subcollection: ai-openscale

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:tip: .tip}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:download: .download}
{:screen: .screen}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}

# Custom machine learning engine examples
{: #fmrk-workaround-cstmmlsengex}

Use the following examples to set up your own custom machine learning engine.
{: shortdesc}

## Python and flask
{: #fmrk-workaround-pandflask}

The [Custom ML Engine example published on git](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix) is using python and flask to serve scikit-learn model.

To generate the drift detection model, you must use scikit-learn version 0.20.2 in the notebook. 
{: note}

The [README file](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix) describes how the app can be deployed locally for testing purposes as well as cf application on IBM Cloud. The implementation of REST API endpoints can be found in [app.py file](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/blob/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-bluemix/app.py).

## Node.js
{: #fmrk-workaround-nodejs}

You can also find example of custom machine learning engine written in [Node.js here](https://github.com/pmservice/ai-openscale-tutorials/tree/master/applications/custom-ml-engine-nodejs).

## End2end code pattern
{: #fmrk-workaround-e2ecode}

[Code pattern](https://developer.ibm.com/patterns/monitor-custom-machine-learning-engine-with-ai-openscale) showing end2end example of custom engine deployment and integration with {{site.data.keyword.aios_short}}.
